# [15.25.](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-15.html#jls-15.25) Conditional Operator `? :`
- [x] The first expression must be of type `boolean` or `Boolean`, or a compile-time error occurs.
- [x] If both the second and the third operand expressions are _boolean expressions_, the conditional expression is a boolean conditional expression.
- [x] If both the second and the third operand expressions are _numeric expressions_, the conditional expression is a numeric conditional expression.
- [x] Otherwise, the conditional expression is a reference conditional expression.

conditional expression types tracking:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xboW9qVpQZBg8PPtfvhfblj3Y4GgX5sUuW5_KlQD1A4/edit?gid=0#gid=0
##### [15.25.1.](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-15.html#jls-15.25.1) Boolean Conditional Expressions
- [x] If the second and third operands are both of type `Boolean`, the conditional expression has type `Boolean`.
- [x] - Otherwise, the conditional expression has type `boolean`.
##### [15.25.2.](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-15.html#jls-15.25.2) Numeric Conditional Expressions
- [ ] If the second and third operands have the same type, then that is the type of the conditional expression.

- [ ] If one of the second and third operands is of primitive type T, and the type of the other is the result of applying boxing conversion ([§5.1.7](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-5.html#jls-5.1.7 "5.1.7. Boxing Conversion")) to T, then the type of the conditional expression is T.    

- [ ] If one of the operands is of type `byte` or `Byte` and the other is of type `short` or `Short`, then the type of the conditional expression is `short`.

- [ ] If one of the operands is of type T where T is `byte`, `short`, or `char`, and the other operand is a constant expression ([§15.29](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-15.html#jls-15.29 "15.29. Constant Expressions")) of type `int` whose value is representable in type T, then the type of the conditional expression is T.

- [ ] If one of the operands is of type T, where T is `Byte`, `Short`, or `Character`, and the other operand is a constant expression of type `int` whose value is representable in the type U which is the result of applying unboxing conversion to T, then the type of the conditional expression is U.

- [ ] Otherwise, general numeric promotion ([§5.6](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-5.html#jls-5.6 "5.6. Numeric Contexts")) is applied to the second and third operands, and the type of the conditional expression is the promoted type of the second and third operands.

##### [15.25.3.](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-15.html#jls-15.25.3) Reference Conditional Expressions
A reference conditional expression is a poly expression if it appears in an assignment context or an invocation context ([§5.2](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-5.html#jls-5.2 "5.2. Assignment Contexts"). [§5.3](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-5.html#jls-5.3 "5.3. Invocation Contexts")). Otherwise, it is a standalone expression.
- Poly expressions
	- [ ] Where a poly reference conditional expression appears in a context of a particular kind with target type T, its second and third operand expressions similarly appear in a context of the same kind with target type T.
	- [ ] A poly reference conditional expression is compatible with a target type T if its second and third operand expressions are compatible with T.
	- [ ] The type of a poly reference conditional expression is the same as its target type.

- Standalone
	The type of a standalone reference conditional expression is determined as follows:
	- [ ] If the second and third operands have the same type (which may be the null type), then that is the type of the conditional expression.
	- [ ] If the type of one of the second and third operands is the null type, and the type of the other operand is a reference type, then the type of the conditional expression is that reference type.
	- [ ] Otherwise, the second and third operands are of types S1 and S2 respectively. Let T1 be the type that results from applying boxing conversion to S1, and let T2 be the type that results from applying boxing conversion to S2. The type of the conditional expression is the result of applying capture conversion ([§5.1.10](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jls/se26/html/jls-5.html#jls-5.1.10 "5.1.10. Capture Conversion")) to lub(T1, T2).